engaging in activity inside of
Afghanistan to act as a spoiler we've
seen just these last six days a
significant reduction in violence in
Afghanistan and we are watching closely
to see if the Islamic Republic of Iran
begins to take even more active measures
active measures that undermine our
efforts to peace and reconciliation in
Afghanistan and just as importantly put
our American soldiers who are on the
ground they're in both the Kabul area
and in the West at risk as well yep this
guy had this as part of his his
territory we are we are very mindful
that that's an area he knows well and
might well seek to expand Iranian
activity both through the goods force
and otherwise I'm glad you're on top of
it how did the Soleimani strike change
the IRGC standing in Iran and have we
been able to take advantage of any loss
of of prestige through information
operations in Iran Soleimani was a
strategic target there was strategic
deterrence that resulted from that
strike he was absolutely a terrorist he
axel absolutely had American blood on
his hands he absolutely intended to kill
more Americans in the immediate future
but he also occupied a position which
was very close to the Ayatollah and
there is no one that is going to be
capable of replacing that strategic
input that he was being able able to
provide to the Ayatollah and therefore
we believe that only did we achieve the
battlefield deterrence that his
departure now has led to but we also
have changed the calculus inside of Iran
and the understanding your point about
the red line it is not possible for the
Islamic Republic of Iran to have been
surprised by the actions President Trump
took we had communicated clearly that
the loss of American lives would result
in a strike of significance that would
impose real costs on Iran so we exercise
deterrence by making sure they
understood what America was prepared to
do and then when they took actions that
were inconsistent with the things that
we had told them we executed against
that very quickly media reports this
week
that vice-president of Iran as well as
Iran's top health official have both
contracted Karuna virus are you able to
comment on the potential destabilization
of Iran were there senior political
leadership to be deathly ill or even
perhaps die specifically does the state
have concerns about a void in leadership
as it relates to their nuclear program
and the cuts force I don't have any I
don't have very much information about
beyond what we've seen in the open press
reporting and as I said earlier we're
gonna do what we can on the humanitarian
side to assist the Iranian people
against building out their systems
inside of the country I think I think of
your time I yield back miss Pam burger
Thank You mr. chairman
sir after the strike you were the
administration's point person making the
case that we had to kill sulemani at
that moment on January 3rd here's what
you said
I'll read it you said we have specific
information on an imminent threat and
those threat streams included attacks on
US embassies . .
that was january 10th after you had
about a week to get your story straight
except when we're looking at the fact
that taking out Soleimani was essential
to addressing a blow to a lines malign
activity i questioned the fact that the
day after sol emani's death Iran's
supreme leader Khomeini appointed
sulemani as longtime deputy to replace
him and continued operations they didn't
stop and they didn't slow down isn't
isn't that true didn't they shoot
rockets at our people just days later
sir the answer is yes and in the same
day that you made that statement you
gave a classified briefing in Congress I
was there and you didn't provide
evidence to us about that claimed
imminence that's not true the evidence
of that claimed imminence was not given
during our briefing absolutely and sir
you and I both know that the claim of
imminence was necessary and pivotal to
the administration's justification for
action and circumventing Congress with I
said there was nothing in that briefing
with conflicting information its Hartman
has the time with conflicting
information it's hard for the American
people to know what to believe but
fortunately we have what's called a 1264
report and the president is required by
law to send this report to Congress to
explain the legal and policy
justifications for killing Soleimani and
since it's a crime to make false
statements to Congress I presume that we
can take the 1264 at face value we
receive this on January 31st sir how
many times does this report refer to an
imminent attack on a u.s. embassy that
would be stopped by killing general
Soleimani the answer is none so your own
report directly contradicts what you and
the president told the American people
over and over you said there were
imminent threats to American lives and
that's not true and when the
administration was constrained by the
law to tell the truth you abandoned the
talking points mr. Pompeo there's
another report on Iran that is due this
Sunday it's required by a piece of law
that I
it should give more transparency to the
American people about why you risked
plunging us into war and I expect the
president will comply with the law and
provide that report this weekend do you
expect that will be the case sir we we
always do our best to comply with every
legal requirement I promise you we will
continue I look forward to reading it
and lastly assistance the administration
has been so inconsistent with the facts
as it relates to coronavirus on matters
of security and public health the
American people need credible consistent
information and we are consistently not
receiving that from the administration I
yield to representative Levin mr.
chairman is it possible I could respond
to a couple things I wasn't asked a
question but there were there were sorry
you didn't answer them I yield to
representative Levin thank you there
were material misstatements made we
missed mr. Levin controls the time the
problem is we don't we don't have enough
time all right Thank You mr. e-470 sir
I'm sir to your left you'll see a map of
the world right there would you please
point out for us on this map which of
our embassies were under threat of
imminent act so that you had to kill
general Soleimani regardless of the
consequences for American safety On
January 3rd 2020 I'm happy to and I'm
happy to answer your question which for
I'm happy to answer your question I'm
not going to get into classified
material okay well sir reclaiming my
time
we all know that Soleimani was a bad guy
but what I'm talking about is the
decisions made leading up to January 3rd
that brought us to the brink of war and
you're not willing to tell us which
embassies were under attack under threat
of attack were willing to disclose
classified information I assume you're
not either right sir
well you you can't hide behind
classification on this one because you
can't classify something that doesn't
exist the administration has given us
shifting stories you the president
others about what was going on there On
January 10th the same day you briefed
Congress the president said this to Fox
News I can reveal that I believe
would have been for embassies so this is
again the same day you were up here
briefing us and I was there on Soleimani
strikes and we didn't hear a word from
you on the threats of for embassies why
not there were multiple embassies which
my diplomatic security team had enormous
concern sir I have such little time are
you gonna let me answer the Khalil
because you're not answering the
question sir I'm not asking to reveal
classified information chairman when you
please let the witness answer the
question well I want the witness answer
the question I hope that when we run out
of time at the end that the secretary
will agree to stay for a few extra
midnight I will not agree to stay for a
few minutes but I'm happy to answer
whatever questions I can go then is the
problem mr. secretary briefed 70 times
mr. chairman mr. all right mr. Levin yes
sir
here's the bottom line if we had the
time I would play the defense secretary
statement that he had no information
about embassies we're facing a possible
coronavirus pandemic this administration
had three different stories about the
events that brought us to the brink of
war so it's no surprise that Americans
are scared because this administration
keeps proving it can't be trusted to
tell us the truth I yield back mr.
chairman Thank You mr. Zeldin
Thank You mr. chair and mr. secretary
thank you for being here I apologize
this hearing is been a joke you're
getting asked a lot of questions the my
colleagues on the other side of the
aisle are choosing either to answer the
question for you if you don't answer in
the first split second of them finishing
with the question mark or if you attempt
to answer they cut you off to reclaim
their time so I first would like to give
you the opportunity to to answer any of
the questions posed because what we just
witnessed for anyone at home witnessing
the last five minutes it's an
embarrassment
mr. secretary go ahead well let me just
say mr. Elden was really an
embarrassment is that we couldn't get
more than two hours from the Secretary
of State that's really an embarrassment
to this committee mr. Zeldin
mr. secretary so the record should
reflect that the United States
government has briefed Congress over 70
times on the issue of Iran so I think
it's I think it's difficult to claim
that we've not been prepared to share
indeed i briefed all of you some of you
referred to that briefing extensively
briefed the Senate side as well
entire entire member every